	Portal: Current events/March 2019
                                  Disasters and accidents


1.	A bus overturns on the Qom–Tehran Highway in Iran, killing eight people (including the driver) and injuring more than thirty others. Officials claim the driver fell asleep. (France 24)
2.	A Russian cargo ship collides with a motorway bridge in the city of Busan, South Korea. The captain is reported to be drunk. (The Guardian)
3.	A leaking oil pipeline explodes in Bayelsa, Nigeria; a stampede follows. Over 50 are reported missing. (The Guardian)
4.	A BMW collides with two oncoming minibuses between Fouriesburg and Bethlehem in Free State, South Africa, killing thirteen and injuring eight. (Eyewitness News)
5.	Tornado outbreak of March 3, 2019
•	At least 23 people are confirmed dead, many are injured, and 10,000 customers are without electricity after several tornadoes strike Lee County in southeast Alabama. (Fox News) (BBC)
6.	After heavy snowfall, avalanches close Interstate 70 and three Copper Mountain passes in Summit County, Colorado. (KCNC-TV)
7.	A helicopter crashes in Central Island National Park, Kenya, killing four American tourists and their Kenyan pilot. (BBC)
8.	A 4.6 magnitude earthquake is felt in central Alberta just before 6 a.m. The epicentre was determined to be just south of Red Deer, and is believed to be the result of tectonic activity east of the Rocky Mountains. No structural damage or injuries are reported, and it is unlikely to cause aftershocks. (Global News)
9.	The flooding of the Citarum River, Indonesia, causes at least two deaths. (The Jakarta Post)
10.	A major power blackout leaves most of Venezuela without electricity, including the capital Caracas. At least 18 of Venezuela's 23 states have reported blackouts. Venezuelan news website El Pitazo blames failures at Simón Bolívar hydroelectric plant; state TV blames anti-government saboteurs. (The Guardian)
11.	A nationwide power blackout enters its second day in Venezuela. Information Minister Jorge Rodríguez and Defense Minister Vladimir Padrino López claim the country appears to be the victim of a cyberattack intended to "derail the whole system". Venezuelan National Assembly-declared Acting President Juan Guaidó stated that "state corruption and mismanagement (...) have left the electrical grid in shambles". (AP) (Forbes)
12.	A truck overturns on a highway in Chiapas, Mexico, killing 25 Central American migrants who were hiding inside. (Reuters)
13.	A DC-3 operated by Laser Aereo crashes in Colombia en-route from San José del Guaviare, killing all 14 aboard. (Reuters)
14.	Whilst a nationwide power blackout continues, Acting President Juan Guaidó calls for protests in the capital of Venezuela. (Reuters) (Time)
15.	With a fire causing new damage to a power plant in Bolívar State, President Nicolás Maduro states the power outages are "caused by U.S.-backed sabotage"; Guaidó says the outages are due to Maduro government "corruption and mismanagement". (MSN) (SFGate)
16.	A Japanese high-speed boat collides with a "marine creature" while carrying 121 passengers; 87 passengers are injured and 5 airlifted by helicopter to the hospital.
17.	The floods from the predecessor of Cyclone Idai cause 23 deaths and 11 missing in southern Malawi. (The Maravi Post)
18.	Around 40 fishermen are rescued by the United States Coast Guard after an ice sheet breaks away on Lake Erie. 
19.	An Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 MAX 8 from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, with 149 passengers and eight crew members onboard crashes en route to Nairobi, Kenya, killing all 157 persons on board. 
20.	
•	Shares of Boeing lose roughly 9 percent after one of its best-selling planes, the Boeing 737 MAX jet, saw its second deadly crash in less than five months. (CNBC)
•	China and Indonesia ground 737-8 MAX aircraft across their nations in response to the Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 and Lion Air Flight 610 disasters; airlines elsewhere including Ethiopian Airlines voluntarily ground their own 737 MAX jets. (The Independent)
21.	HMS Argyll rescues a 27-strong crew from a burning container vessel 150 miles off the coast of France.
22.	The European Union, Australia, India, Malaysia, Singapore, and Turkey ground all Boeing 737 MAX 8 jets. This means 40% of the global fleet is now grounded, with Indonesia, China and several airlines grounding their aircraft yesterday. Boeing states they will issue a software update for the model within weeks. (The Guardian) (BNO)(AFP)
23.	The sinking of the Grande America causes a 2,200 tonnes (4,900,000 lb) oil spill in the Bay of Biscay, France. 
24.	A building in Lagos, Nigeria, collapses, killing ten people and leaving more than 100 others trapped under the rubble. (BBC) (Reuters)
25.	Canada and the United States ground all Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9 aircraft and ban the jet from their airspace until further notice. It is now effectively grounded worldwide, with no operators remaining unaffected by grounding orders. (CBC) (BBC) (CNN)
26.	An avalanche on Ben Nevis kills two French nationals and a Swiss national. A fourth climber is injured and is receiving treatment at a hospital in Glasgow. (BBC)
27.	USS Devastator is damaged by fire while at a Bahrain dock.
28.	A fire at a refugee camp in Nigeria kills eight and leaves 15,000 homeless. The residents are people displaced by ongoing conflict with Boko Haram. (Reuters)
29.	Flooding over large portions of Nebraska leave one dead and two missing with over 900 people using emergency shelters. Many roads and highways in the state are also closed. (USA Today)
30.	At least 73 people have been killed in flash floods in the province of Papua, Indonesia. (BBC)
31.	President of Mozambique Filipe Nyusi suggests the death toll of Cyclone Idai could reach over one thousand. The current official toll stands at 84. 
32.	At least 103 people are killed when a Tigris River ferry, carrying families celebrating the Nowruz new year holiday, sinks near the Iraqi city of Mosul.
33.	A fire and explosion at a chemical plant that makes fertilizer in Yancheng, Jiangsu province, China, kills 47 people and injures 640 others.
34.	Two buses collide head-on in a village near Kintampo, Ghana, killing at least 50 people. Almost all casualties are a result of a fire on one of the buses. (BBC) (GhanaWeb)
35.	Thousands have been forced to evacuate their homes as two potentially devastating cyclones are expected to hit the country this weekend. Cyclone Trevor will make landfall in the north near Numbulwar and Borroloola, while Cyclone Veronica, a Category 4 storm, will strike Pilbara on Australia's west coast. (BBC)
36.	Officials report the death toll is now 62 from Thursday's chemical plant explosion in Chenjiagang Industrial Park in northeastern Jiangsu Province, with 94 others seriously injured and 28 people still missing. (BBC) (The Straits Times)
37.	Rescuers scramble to rescue about 1,300 passengers and crew from the cruise ship Viking Sky adrift off the coast of Norway.
38.	More than 60 school, county, city, child services and law enforcement officials, as well as mental health specialists, teachers and parents, hold an emergency meeting after the suicide of a second Stoneman Douglas survivor. Florida's emergency chief is requesting the state Legislature provide more mental health resources for the community. Coral Springs, Florida, police reported that, Saturday night, a current sophomore killed himself. Last week, Sydney Aiello, a 19-year-old graduate who had recently been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, took her own life.
39.	Flash flooding in the southern provinces of Iran kills at least 19 people and injures more than 100. The majority of the deaths occurred in the city of Shiraz.
40.	The death toll of the floods and landslide in Jayapura, Indonesia, rise to 113. At least 94 others are still missing. (CNN)
41.	The death toll from a flash flood in Iran rises to 21
42.	At least 18 people have died after a truck struck a crowd gathered at a road accident in western Guatemala. The group had apparently gathered on the road to inspect a person who had been killed in a separate crash when the vehicle ploughed into them. The estimates of those dead were later revised by officials. (Sky News) (Reuters)(BBC)
43.	A fire breaks out in Dhaka, Bangladesh, at a 22-story tower, killing at least 25 people and injuring more than 70 others. (BBC)
44.	Flash floods kill at least 32 people in western Afghanistan, destroying homes and sweeping through makeshift shelters that housed displaced families. (Reuters)
45.	This month, at least 400,000 hectares (1 million acres) of U.S. farmland were flooded from the early March blizzard storm that affected nine major grain-producing states, according to Israel Cleantech Ventures' Gro Intelligence. (Reuters)
46.	A 5.3 magnitude earthquake strikes northwest of Athens, Greece, near the seaside town of Itea at 1046 GMT. (The Washington Post)
47.	A 6.4 magnitude earthquake hits Papua New Guinea's New Britain island, east of Kandrian at 1120 GMT. (Reuters)


International Relations

1.	Bangladesh's Foreign Secretary Shahidul Haque tells the United Nations Security Council that his country will no longer accept Rohingya refugees fleeing violence across the border in Rakhine State, and accuses Myanmar of "hollow promises" regarding repatriation. 
2.	North Korean leader Kim Jong-un begins an official visit to Vietnam, three days after arriving in the country for a nuclear summit with U.S. President Donald Trump that ended in deadlock.
3.	The Trump administration announced Friday it is revoking the visas of 49 Maduro-aligned officials and their families and sanctioning several top military and security officials, part of a major U.S. campaign to push contested Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro from power.
4.	The United States and South Korea announce that their annual large-scale exercises, commonly known as Foal Eagle and Key Resolve, will end and will be re-configured into smaller exercises. The joint exercises will be done on a small unit level and may include virtual training similar to the 2018 exercises.
5.	Iranian President Hassan Rouhani begins his first official visit to Iraq to boost bilateral ties and trade amid re-instated U.S. sanctions on Iran. 
6.	U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham visits the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, saying he will start an effort to recognize the Golan as part of the State of Israel.
7.	The United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announces that the U.S. will be withdrawing all remaining diplomatic staff from Venezuela. The withdrawal follows televised remarks from Nicolás Maduro calling colectivos(paramilitary groups) to active resistance, and alleging that U.S. President Donald Trump masterminded the ongoing nationwide power blackout as part of a "demonic plot" to oust him, by crippling the country's electricity sector with an "electromagnetic attack".
8.	In an annual report, the Estonian Foreign Intelligence Service warns that Russia will "very likely" try to intervene in European parliamentary elections this May to undermine unity within the European Union "by sowing disorder and disbelief" within and between the 28 European Union member states. 
9.	United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo bars the entry of International Criminal Court investigators into the United States as part of the ICC's investigation into possible war crimes committed by the United States military in Afghanistan.
10.	North Korea has reportedly threatened to suspend negotiations with the United States regarding nuclear weaponry, as well as resume related missile testing.
11.	North Korea and South Korea express interest in jointly hosting the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup. 
12.	The European People's Party votes to suspend Hungary's ruling Fidesz party citing its anti-immigration stance, and personal attacks on Jean-Claude Juncker and George Soros. Hungarian Prime Minister and Fidesz leader Viktor Orbán had threatened to pull out of the EPP if it was suspended.
13.	U.S. President Donald Trump announces his intentions to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the disputed Golan Heights, a move welcomed by Israel. 
14.	Syria has not publicly responded to President Trump's decision. Ahmed Aboul Gheit, Secretary-General of the Arab League, declares this action irrelevant and illegal. 
15.	The United States sanctions two Chinese shipping companies suspected of helping North Korea evade sanctions. These are the first actions targeting Pyongyang since last month's Hanoi Summit ended without agreement. 
16.	U.S. President Donald Trump removes sanctions targeting North Korea that were imposed Thursday by the Treasury Department on two Chinese companies.
17.	The Inter-American Development Bank, Latin America’s largest development lender, cancels its scheduled annual 48-country meeting next week following China's refusal to allow a representative of Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaidó to attend what would have been the first IADB meeting held in China.
18.	Italy signs $2.8 billion in deals with the Belt and Road Initiative.
19.	Two Russian military planes, an Ilyushin Il-62 and an Antonov An-124, land at Simón Bolívar International Airportnear Caracas, Venezuela, carrying senior Defence Ministry official Vasily Tonkoshkurov [ru], a large amount of equipment and about 100 troops. Russia, which three months earlier held joint military exercises on Venezuelan soil, condemned other countries for backing Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaidó against embattled President Nicolás Maduro.
20.	In Washington, D.C., the leaders of Romania and Honduras announce they will recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital, following the lead of the United States. 
21.	U.S. President Donald Trump signs a proclamation formally recognising the disputed Golan Heights as sovereign Israeli territory. (Al Jazeera)
22.	Syria's Foreign Affairs Ministry condemns Trump's move as a "flagrant violation of the sovereignty of Syria". (Xinhuanet)
23.	Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras says Turkish fighter jets threatened his helicopter, in Greek airspace, heading to the Aegean island of Agathonisi, near Turkey's coastline, for Greek Independence Day which celebrates the country's 1821 uprising against the Ottoman Empire. Turkish security forces rejected the accusation, insisting the jets were carrying out a routine mission.
24.	The Lima Group condemns the presence of Russian military planes in Venezuela as a "provocation threatening peace and security in the region.
25.	The European Union says it is suspending Operation Sophia ship patrols. Instead, the operation will rely on air missions and close coordination with Libya. The EU also announces the mandate for Operation Sophia, which was scheduled to expire March 31, 2019, will be extended for six months.
26.	More than 100 migrants hijack a merchant vessel that rescued them off Libya's coast, ordering the crew to head towards Malta. Malta's military said the ship would not be allowed into its waters. 
27.	President Donald Trump directs the United States Department of State to cease aid for El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. This apparently reverses the regional compact agreement Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen signed on Wednesday with these countries and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's congressional testimony of the same day. (The Hill) (Reuters) (ABC News) (CNN)
28.	Tunisian authorities acknowledge they are detaining Tunisian national Moncef Kartas, a UN Libyan arms embargo monitor who has diplomatic immunity. Tunisia says Mr. Kartas had traveled in a private capacity on his Tunisian passport. The United Nations has called for his release and for Tunisia to clarify the reason for his arrest. 
29.	Taiwan condemns China after two PLAAF fighter jets pass the maritime line on the Taiwan Strait. Though there was no immediate response from China, the move comes after a week when the United States Navy and United States Coast Guard sent ships through the Strait. 
30.	During the 30th Arab League summit held in Tunisia, leaders condemn the United States' claim that the Golan Heights belong to Israel, and stated the establishment of a Palestinian state is essential for stability.


